---
title: Web3 Libraries
---

# Web3 Libraries

React is pretty basic web2 stuff, but if you want to write web3 app, you need a
library to glue the web2 stuffs and web3 stuffs together, that is
[web3.js](https://github.com/web3/web3.js) and
[ethers.js](https://github.com/ethers-io/ethers.js/), which I think it's simple
to get started.

Between these two choices, much more people prefer to use `ethers.js`. I prefer
to use [Typechain](https://github.com/dethcrypto/TypeChain) to generate the
types at first with ethers.js used underlying (If you're only a frontend dev,
talk to your smart contract devs to generate the types files for you).

## Concept of JSON RPC

Ethereum runs [JSON RPC](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/apis/json-rpc/)
protocol to interact (including reading blockchain state and write data to
blockchain), versus web2 applications usually use REST API.

For example, to call `eth_getBalance` method, you can write curl script like
this:

```
// Request
curl -X POST --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_getBalance","params":["0x407d73d8a49eeb85d32cf465507dd71d507100c1", "latest"],"id":1}'
// Result
{
  "id":1,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": "0x0234c8a3397aab58" // 158972490234375000
}
```

Your favorite web3 libraries just wrap all the complication of JSON RPC into a
easier to use API.

## Web3 wallet connectivity library

There are a lot of libraries handling the connectvity to the web3 wallet, the
most used one is [web3modal](https://web3modal.com/).

And I would like to highlight another one that has a more friendly interface,
that is [web3-onboard](https://onboard.blocknative.com/).

There are also wallet like [ConnectKit](https://docs.family.co/connectkit) and
[RainbowKit](https://www.rainbowkit.com/)

## Libraries with React hooks

[useDapp](https://github.com/TrueFiEng/useDApp) as it provides easy to use React
hooks and you can integrate it with web3modal or web3-onboard when initiating
connection, just pass the `provider` object to useDApp's `activate` function.

Also, there's another library [wagmi](https://wagmi.sh/) which provides more
utilities such as erc20 abi.

## Numbers

Another tricky place to web3 library is the number handling. I've seen some bugs
that pass the truncated input to write the chain, but the truncated number is
greater than the number on chain, which cannot be successfully written.

Also, you would need to handle the number every time by calling ethers'
`utils.formatUnits()` function.
